# Open Source Portal


Throughout the project, MediaArea will regularly make efforts to openly inform and explain to the public the project’s development phase, progress, collaboration with other open source projects, curated findings and use cases. In order to both create and conduct within a sustainable and successful open source community, MediaArea's team anticipates managing an active, social and public promotion of the project through various communication channels and lists, social media, blogging, demo videos, documentation, and outreach. By adequately tracking progress and build of the project software, a sustainable and interested community of users will have the ability to contribute to the growth and success of the project. Although these outreach efforts may use a diverse set of mechanisms and platforms, we will centralize such information within PREFORMA's Open Source Portal.

Within the first month of phase 2, MediaArea plans to set up an online presence coordinated through the Open Source Portal and in collaboration with fellow suppliers to provide information about project objectives, its roadmap, prioritized issues, and communication means (via IRC channel, email lists, and social accounts). These different outreach channels will include user access to the software and its tools (including FFV1, LPCM, and Matroska test files) needed to test the different releases throughout the development stage.  As well as a platform to provide the necessary documentation, these channels of outreach will exist to be used in gathering feedback regarding this use and the further progression of all stages and assets involved throughout the project. All relevant software releases, updates, and tracked issues will also be made available through an accessible repository (GitHub). Community involvement and participation will be encouraged and an important key factor in MediaArea’s evaluation of the continued success of project throughout these stages. Facilitation of this collaborative and communicative public outreach will build throughout the project’s growth, with a fully functional and accessible community implemented at the development stage.

Utilizing best community practices and standards, communication with institutions will be executed through various social means. The usage of an Internet Relay Chat (IRC) channel will enable community users to converse, share and communicate issues and feedback regarding the project freely in real time via forum discussions. These open channels can be publicly logged and archived for future development and support purposes. MediaArea proposes that all PREFORMA teams collaborate together to create one shared IRC channel, wherein community users can get general support for the PREFORMA platform and teams can share advice and collaboratively improve the software components and plug-ins.

In addition to a shared IRC channel, memory institutions and other interested organizations and users will readily have access to signing up for mailing lists, made available by MediaArea, covering the full scope of the project. These mailing lists will further establish involvement and support from the public by creating ease in gaining feedback and access to documentation, software information and updates.  Their usage will focus on the implementation of an information flow covering both user and development aspects of the project’s evolvement and will also be archived for future support on both ends. Topics such as general information and discussion, user questions and issues, software development updates, and bug reports can be easily communicated throughout the community and later be documented as essential pieces of the project’s growth. To further promote an even more sustainable, collective community, communication between interested bodies will also be aided and advocated through tracking forums and outside discussion regarding the project.  Users will be encouraged to ask questions and reply to enquiries throughout all of these mediums of open collaboration.

In union with an IRC channel and mailing list, outreach through social media accounts and platforms will allow MediaArea to facilitate the public sharing of information and updates of use and development through public blogging and informative demo videos. Social media outreach will enable the growth of a larger interested and potentially invested open source community while also furthering their insight and education into contributing to its continued development. Shared demo videos will relate information and instruction through a visual medium and garner further visually informed feedback. MediaArea’s social accounts and videos will communicate swift and digestible information and updates and will serve as outlets that redirect this traffic back to the Open Source Portal, where regular open source community standards and practices will be upheld.

For roadmap and issue tracking, we will be using a public GitHub account that will provide curated project summaries and a coding base that will be linked to within the Open Source Portal. This will provide an open and recognized platform for external contributors and users to engage and familiarize themselves with the project and its assets. To further the social and professional outreach around the development and design of the project, we will strongly encourage active participation here within the work as it occurs and invite memory institutions and the public to see and comment upon the project discussion as it evolves. Making use of the GitHub’s wiki and responsive issue tracker features, full transparency, traceability and assistance with software, bug reports, and file conformance feedback and errors will be available throughout all phases. Collaborative usage of the issue trackers and bug reports will also create more efficient management towards improvement and comprehension of the software. The GitHub account will also be used to mark regular releases of project software. In addition to a GitHub presence, we will actively work with package management systems to coordinate release and updates of project software and coordinate installation information through the Open Source Portal.

Public access to a supply of created, collected and solicited project resources, test media and reference files will also be made available through the GitHub account and linked to within the Open Source Portal. The usage and dissemination of these resources will focus on testing the features and designs of the implementation checker and help to highlight any issues that may appear within the specific formats (FFV1, LPCM, and Matroska). Relevant test files will conform to the specifications of their stream and container formats while others will purposely deviate from these specifications in order to allow the implementation checker to find and solve errors. These issues can also highlight and form solutions for problems that may arise within various preservation and archival settings. As different memory institutions’ usage of the software may vary in file format specifications and structure, open testing of media throughout development is necessary. All deviations will be highlighted and full transparency of all technical documentation for each project asset will be provided to ensure proper incoming usage and feedback.

By taking a proactive approach in creating a foundation for open source public outreach, MediaArea can effectively interact with memory institutions and other organizations and users in order to create deliverables and updates throughout the development stage. These methods will serve to produce a long term, sustainable open source community used to continuously educate and familiarize these users with MediaArea’s project development and any issues and updates that may arise on either the user or development’s end. An establish open source community will be supported throughout the lifecycle of the project’s progress as both a means to communicate to the memory institutions and users as well as to gather collaborative feedback for further development.  With complete and open access to all stages of this progress, including the release of all developing versions of source code, corresponding assets, versions of software, and subsequently tracked issues and bug reports, the communication channels will thrive and continue well into all further stages of MediaArea’s project lifespan.

# Documentation and Training Plan for Conformance Tools

A well developed training plan can serve not only as an educational tool for users but can also become one of the key components used in improving the actual functionality of the software. In order to achieve this, MediaArea will develop a comprehensive set of collaborative training procedures that will educate the community on how to properly and most effectively engage with the open source software. In keeping with both the implementation checker’s portability and its ability to operate across multiple platforms, the project’s training material for the conformance tools will be uploaded and linked to within the open development platform (GitHub) and will also be developed to function and open similarly across any system.

The team’s training plan will include open source access to written technical documentation, pre-scheduled online demo videos, virtual training, Q&A sessions targeted at user specific issues, and visual presentations all pertaining to the usage of the project’s implementation checker tools within an open source environment. Included within this educational outreach will be specially crafted documentation and presentations that will focus on specific communities and memory institutions. As with all of the community outreach tools MediaArea has plans to implement, the training material will be designed to link back to and be accessible within PREFORMA’s Open Source Portal.

To complement any written How-To and Getting Started general documentations, ancillary online demos will be uploaded and available for file download via the project’s GitHub page. These videos will serve as important training tools that users may download and view locally on their computer at any time.  Pre-scheduled demo videos will also be planned as well as the introduction of customized virtual training sessions as the software’s development progresses. In addition to these instructive demos, community Q & A sessions and forums will be created in order to encourage knowledge sharing regarding user specific troubleshooting, software testing and general education on purpose and usage of the project.

Focus will also be given to the creation of more exclusively written documentation and visual presentations in which the key focus will be on specific communities and memory institutions. Encouragement and support will be given to memory institutions seeking to utilize the conformance checking tools within their existing workflow. As community involvement is vital to the success of evaluating the progression of the project, it will be important for MediaArea’s various project stages to periodicly focus on key memory institutions and relevant archival and open source communities that will have need to implement the digital technology validation tools.

Emphasizing focus on particular institutions and existing digital collections that will benefit from the project’s development will also allow the team further ability to enable the creation of a more precise rendering of the software and its training tools for future and potential users. Presenting and showcasing these tools within these specific environments will supplement and inform a more general community-wide training plan and will result in highly specified feedback covering a range of situations and issues.

MediaArea’s project training documentation, instruction, videos, archived presentations and Q & A sessions will be uploaded, provided and continue to reside on the chosen open development platform (GitHub). The GitHub page will link back to the PREFORMA website and Open Source Portal, where all data will be centralized. These training and outreach resources will be linked to within sections on the PREFORMA website dedicated to Documentation and Coding Practices as well as Collaboration and Development Tools.

Dissemination of all open source training tools and outcomes will be an ongoing focus during both the development and deployment stage. The goal is to have these tools in a constant state of undergoing updates as the open source community will inform and guide their usage. As users learn, further knowledge gaps can be skillfully recognized and filled. As a strong and collaboratively engaged open source community can influence and guide the success of the project, training documentation and plans for external usage will require more than just informal sharing of how-to documentation. User engagement with training and testing material as well as giving relevant feedback will be encouraged throughout all stages.

Feedback resulting from this collaborative usage will be gathered through all stages of development in order to improve the software’s proficiency in dealing with multiple potential errors and situations in a digital environment. Successfully progressing the project’s ongoing sustainability within memory institutions in the long term will continue to shape MediaArea’s evolving training material. This ongoing lifecycle of effective feedback and developing training methods will be key in formulating this long-term presence via the open source platform and its community.
